Welcome back everyone.
In this segment of the training we're going to start looking at very simple new rent work.
This is really to get you started on the different components of neural networks.
And we will start with this very simple problem statement.
So let me just hide the table content.
You can bring it up using by clicking on that.
Let me start with this really simple problem statement and then we've built on that.
To begin with we have some really simple sample data generated by the following function.
Why is a good two three x plus 50.
And I hope that your high school math doesn't fail you.
Why really is the dependent variable.
Three is the slope and fifty is the intercept in machine learning.
We also call it bias.
Let me just bring it back to the simple function here.
Let me just bring that up just so that you can see how this was actually calculated.
Okay.
Let me just.
Right.
We have x value and the intercept is 50 right throughout.
And the dependent variable or y that we are looking to predict as I mentioned the formula is Y is good
at three x plus 50 and start to start off X is minus 20 multiplied by three gives you minus 60 plus
50 gives you a minus 10.
So on and so forth for all of these images bring that up hopefully that's a little bit clearer now that
I've enlarged it.
So essentially we created all of these data.
So if you look across this I think as eight we will use the last row of data this raw data as the core
value that we want the model to predict these will be the value that we will provide.
Meaning X and also y were provided to our algorithm as the sample data.
Now coming back to the core lab now.
Of course in this case is a contrived example or one that we created.
And with the exact data in real life however we have no knowledge of the real functions in our case
we defined a function ourself in real life we don't have any knowledge of that.
We are of course only have the data and the data that we usually see is the input data which is this
column of value here.
Let me just highlight in green and the so core corresponding dependent variable.
So this is these are basically the only two columns of data that we have we basically have minus 20
minus 10 minus five that 5 1 and 53.
We only see the mapping of course the X could be many features.
But let's just focus on one feature for now which is one x.
It could be x two extra.
In real life.
So in real life we only have the data available to us.
Of course in a situation when we know the real function you can just write the code for it.
This nice and simple.
But of course we don't.
Okay.
We have to estimate the function using the data given and that is really the challenge.
And we are using machine learning in the specific case that we're doing here.
Neural networks or deep learning to solve this problem.
So let's go through these lumbar line which to start with.
We import the libraries and before we do them.
Let's just check our runtime is using Python 3 and GP you okay.
So once we run that we basically need to import No I.
And also tensor flow.
We're using tensor floor 2.0.
And next thing is the data preparing the data.
The carriers which is what we actually using here under tends of flow expect the data to be in an array
format.
The NUM pi array format.
And so we need to restructure these x and y pair into this format here.
So X is none of my array and we actually set the data type as float.
So let's just run that.
Let's start with some really basic definitions that you might find useful.
I talked about X just now in machine learning language or jargon.
We call this feature.
It's also sometimes called the independent independent variable.
If you come from the statistics space it is sometimes also called the inputs and the Y is our dependent
variable.
Quite often it is called the label.
Also the core targets and sometimes call the output to the actual model itself.
So if you read these terminology don't get thrown off just understand that there are multiple names
for the same thing and the symbol or example is really the pair.
The pairing of the feature then the label or the X and Y provided to the machine learning algorithm
during training.
So in our situation here we have two four six seven pairs of feature as well as the label which we will
feed to the machine learning algorithm to train it and hopefully it will be able to extract the pattern
and be able to generalize and predict the answer right.
The next step then is to define our model.
We will just start very simply with just a dense layer.
I don't explain what the dense layer means.
In the next lecture and we will only use one neuron for this right in terms of the model.
We do need to specify layers.
OK I'll come back to that a little bit with the pictorial example.
The step then first of all is to create an instance.
Also core instantiate a layer by calling tensor flow TFC a shot for tensor flow dot terrorist dot layers
dot dense and we also need to specify the input shape meaning the input data that we have we need to
let us know what is the shape of it.
Okay.
Without specifying it carries will not know it we're just drawn on error so we do need to provide the
information.
What shape what dimension in our case there's only one single value of which is afloat and the units
are equal to one.
Specify that we are creating a neural network with only one neural OK one neuron.
Sometimes this is called internal variable.
Of course the more complex our problem is the more neuron that you need to specify in neuron can be
with by with meaning.
Each layer has however many that you define could be one to four and upwards or multiple layers meaning
each.
You can add one layer of five neurons or you can have three layers each having five neurons.
So that really is defined using the units itself.
That each the units define how many neurons in one day.
Okay for our problem we will only make use of one layer the input shape is our first layer.
Okay.
So without specifying it as one we are defining our neural networks to take only a single value which
is a floating point number again because this is our only layer.
It is also I'll finally.
The units then specify the number.
Output from our numeric which is also a single value which is defined here is 1.
Again this is a single float point number.
Now you need to take care in a multi layer net was the size and shape of the output layer as defined
by the units will need to match.
So if you have multiple layers so when you go to layer two for example and layer 2 takes 3 as the input
shape then your units here at the end of your layer 1 will also need to be 3 of course layer to follow
what was defined in Layer 1.
If Layer 1 specify the unit is 5 then your layer 2 input will needs to be the matching exactly the same
as 5.
So let's start with defining our layers.
We are only we only have one layers and this layer we call Layer 1 layer underscore one tensor flow
dot carers dot layers dot dense and the unit is equal to 1 and the input shape is equal to 1 as well.
OK and we provide this OK as a pyramid to 2 tensor flow dot carers dot sequential and have that in a
bracket and instantiate this and call this model.
So I'll layer while we could lay underscore 1 and I'll model because the model again let's just run
this okay.
You can actually.
There's two ways to define this.
You can do it separately defining the layer separately from the model or you can actually have it inline
like this tensor flow dot carries dot sequential like this part and the inside here you just typed out
the whole thing.
Tens of low dot carries dot layers dot tents dens defining the units as one and also input Shavers one
all right.
That's really defining it.
Nothing has happened in the background so the next part then we use to actually compile our model in
the compilation of our model we need to specify two things.
One is a lost function the add on is the optimizer function the last function is a performance matrix.
It is used to measure the errors of our model against the actual outcome it is also a core lost function
because of the difference between our prediction and actual is called loss.
So essentially the last function measure the scale or the difference between the prediction and the
actual of course the smaller the better the because not ideal but the difference is really what's called
the lost and hence we call this function to measure it called loss function and the optimizer function
is the function or the mathematic function that is used to adjust the model Paramount is to improve
prediction accuracy.
Okay so that's the function that we use to adjust the internal value of our neural network so that the
accuracy can be improved as time as the learning progresses.
Right.
There's one more thing that we need to define which is not a pyramid that is extra high per parameter.
Let's call hyper pyramid.
Because there's nothing to do with the actual machine learning model but it does have an impact on how
fast or how slow our model learn.
So that's where that's why it's core hyper parameter.
It's due impact on the learning but is not one of the parameters of the actual machine learning model
for the lending rate.
You define it as zero point one.
I've also tried zero point zero zero one which converge really slowly and insufficient in the time that
we want to do zero point zero one is faster and zero point one is the fastest.
Okay.
So right.
So in terms of the model model dot compile we need to provide as I mentioned before the lost function
in this case we used to mean square error which we will discuss and let the lesson and for the optimizer
we used to tend to flow carers optimizer the optimization algorithm.
Call Adam in terms of the learning rate we provide at zero point one.
So again let's run this and compile our model.
I provided a bit more so-called links for you to refer to one is about selecting the right evaluation
metric.
It is dependent upon the nature of your problem whether it is a classification problem or whether it
is a regression problem.
So the metric that you use does matter and the Adam optimizes is one of the many optimization algorithm
that you can use again.
I'll provide a link here for you to explore a little bit more that's suitable for your problem.
Alright.
The next step then is to actually proceed to train our model in sensible Paris.
The way to actually train it is core fit method.
Now just remember that our actual model was why is good the three X plus 50 the slope history and intercept
is the slope history and the intercept is 50.
These are the two coefficients that we are asking the neural network to estimate because we didn't give
it the actual formula and in real well we don't know the formula anyway so we need the actual machine
learning model algorithm to actually estimate it for us.
So the neural network what it does is that it starts with a random value since it has no idea where
to start.
Anyway so it just have to use a random value and this random value is also called weights and use it
and the input y to compute x.
Okay.
So we will combine B and multiplication by multiplying x plus to buyers to compute y.
So basically is using it in combination with the input barometer to calculate y.
So because the weights start over the random value of course the prediction will start off with a large
errors.
That's the first then.
Then what the algorithm does is that it takes the arrow value on the loss and then it calculated using
the lost function or have one too many errors here.
And the prediction and the actual value.
So basically using lost function a calculate the lost value.
Take into account of what the prediction is versus the actual value of the next step then is the optimizer
then make an adjustment.
Okay.
Of course as this object to the lending rate that we defined okay and make the adjustment to the weight
and the ultimate goal is to reduce the loss and each time that we allow the model to see all of the
data set is core and epoch.
Okay e.g. pot is the fourth iteration of the example that's provided or that we have and with each epoch
the algorithm then start over again in terms of its learning therefore parameters that we need to provide
for this fit method would need to provide our independent variable X our dependent variable which is
what we were trying to predict Y and epochs specify sorry epochs specify how many cycles should be run
and then we have another argument which has nothing to do with the model itself but more to do with
the method that we're using is to output the so the results and display it onto the console.
In this case we'll put false.
So that we are not bombarded by the result.
We're doing 1000 epochs and we need to provide the x and y.
So let's just run this and store this into the results in the variable core history right.
Okay.
Right now having run that we have no idea whether it's done well whether the model is good or bad or
how did the learning go.
So what we do next is to actually visualize the model training.
The good thing is that carers comes with the history as I mentioned before.
You can actually make use of history to visualise our performance and what we usually do is that we
measure the loss or the of magnitude and measure it or plotted against the number epochs that we run.
Okay.
And from there then we look at how the performance of the last curve looks like.
So if you look at this it started off as I mentioned before because the ways the internal variable started
off with random value.
Of course the loss will be large as you start learning at jobs okay as we go through more and more epoch
the actual loss drops.
Okay.
And basically what our algorithm has done is the learning curve is learning to minimize the loss and
after adjusting the weight it continue until the losses start to actually taper off.
Of course the lending is still got goes on but the point here is that our own this portion here about
80 just shy of 100 most of the lending is done.
Continued to learn and the next step then is for us to actually not just plot this the next step then
is to actually look at the look under the hood in terms of the prediction recall.
You probably want X was 100 when X was 100 the y value is 350.
And if you look at we're providing X is 100 this input here and we're asking the model to perform a
prediction it comes up with a value that's pretty close to a hundred and fifty one instead of 350.
So the errors is actually very very narrow at this point.
And if we actually look under the hood and look at the actual underlying weights I noticed that there
are two variables here.
Both of them are flawed.
The first variable is our slope that we want to actually wanted it to to estimate comes up at three
point 0 8 versus 23 which is really really close and 44 here versus 50.
Again it's really close considering that we only really provided it with seven data points.
It is able to actually come up to predict and also so I was able to estimate so closely.
That's quite remarkable indeed.
Even though there are not a lot of data for this.
So that's really the basic that I want to explain to you in terms of what the machine learning model
or the neural network that we've done here.
The simple process here is to highlight to you how powerful it is.
That's the first thing.
Second thing is that it was able to actually estimate the view function really very closely.
And the third thing that I want to highlight is that the in terms of the dense layer which is what we
are going to talk about names we're only we don't even have multiple layers.
We only have one dense layer.
And from this that one single dense layer we were able to estimate the algorithm itself.
OK.
So we talk about the dense layer next.
Finally with walk through the process.
OK.
From importing our libraries preparing the training data.
All right.
And defining our model in terms of the step by step process and after defining our model is the compilation
providing the last function as walls to optimize the actual fitting or training it.
And finally visualizing it to see how the learning has been has taken place or how it has done and a
bit on the prediction side.
And hopefully these five things that we've cover here has been helpful and I hope that you have a better
and deeper understanding of the what we've done and yeah play around with it the particular the one
part that I would like you to play with it is this learning right here.
I had to do all of these and what I've noticed is that and this is not this no one bullet fits all.
It's something that you have to actually experiment with to actually find what the ideal learning rate.
So with that I'm going to stop.
Thank you for watching.